[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Sometimes, you need to set
a goal or create that dream.
You don't need to know the how.
Just first get the
dream together,
and often, we are the ones
that are our own obstacles
in our own way.
And whatever your
dreams are, when
you're able to create
your big dreams,
once you've decided on
that, then the opportunities
and the ideas start
coming to you, right?
So you become, once you
have that really big goal,
then you become more
aware, more alert.
Once you're looking
out that window,
you're seeing what
you're looking for,
which is how to make
a million dollars,
how to find my soulmate, how
to have the dream career.
All those things all of a
sudden start showing up for you.
It's when you get stuck
in that negative space
that you don't see
the opportunities.
You're in this dark fog,
you're in that tunnel.
There could be a million
doors of opportunities
all around you, you
will never see them.
You will never see them
because you're stuck, right?
I always say you know
when you are stuck,
it's like you are
staring at a closed door.
Not only is it closed,
but it's locked,
and you're not going anywhere.
And what I mean
by that is anytime
you're complaining, anytime you
are feeling sorry for yourself,
anytime you're saying,
why is this happening?
I can't believe
this is happening?
This isn't fair, and
all that resentment
and anger around your situation,
it's hard to move past that
and actually bounce back
quickly and bounce back big.
It's really difficult
because you're just busy
staring at this closed door.
Meanwhile, there are all these
open doors all around you,
but you don't see them
because I'm too busy staring
at this closed door that's
right in front of your face,
and so what I say is step
away from that closed door.
Stop focusing on all the
negative and all the things
that you're not happy about, and
start focusing on what you want
and what you want to
create into your life.
What you want to
bring into your life.
Focus on the
positive, and as soon
as you start focusing on the
positive in what you want
to create and dream big, all
of a sudden, you step away
and you look around, and
you say, oh, my goodness,
where were all these
open doors before?
You know what?
They were there
all along, right?
It's what you look for
is what you will find.
And if you're
constantly negative,
you'll find more negativity.
If you're constantly
positive, you
will always find all the
positive things all around you,
right?
So it's one of those things that
once you start becoming aware
what's in there and what's going
on and be able to shift that,
your entire life will shift.
I talk about reprogramming
your conscious mind,
and I usually break it
down into three steps,
and the first one is
reprogram your conscious mind,
and what your conscious mind
is all about your thoughts
and what you're thinking.
So let me explain.
The way it works is
this, is that when
something negative is
happening around you,
so it's, let's say, outside
of you, and it could be--
in my case, I was
$124,000 in debt.
My relationship was breaking
up, my ex was an alcoholic.
I had serious health issues.
We were losing our home.
All these things
were happening to me.
were happening to me,
and I was feeling really sad,
depressed, angry, resentful,
all those negative feelings.
And so if somebody would
have asked me and said, well,
why are you feeling
all those feelings?
Why are you feeling sad?
Why are you feeling angry?
Why are you feeling resentful?
What is all this negativity?
I'm saying, why?
Because I'm losing my
home, $124,000 in debt.
My ex-- at the time,
he wasn't my ex--
is an alcoholic.
I have a serious
health challenge.
Of course I'm feeling this way.
That's why I feel this
way, but you know what?
That's not true.
So you have something outside
of you that's happening,
financial,
relationship, whatever,
and you feel something.
You assume that the
reason you feel this way
is because of that,
but that isn't true.
Something happens
between that and this.
Something here happens,
and what happens
is you have a thought about
what's happening in your life.
That thought is causing
you to feel the way you do.
So you were causing your
own pain and suffering.
It's not out there, and
the reason that's true
is because you can
have 10 people going
through the exact same
situation and have
10 different reactions, right?
And so if that's the case,
then what's the difference?
It's what you think.
So whenever you're going through
a difficult time in your life
and you're not feeling good,
you have to ask yourself,
OK, obviously
something's happening
and things happen in life,
and we have to deal with it,
and get through it, get back
up, move forward, handle it.
How quickly you
do that, is this.
And so what happens is
you have to ask yourself
that question in
those situations
when you don't feel good,
and the question is this,
what am I thinking
about right now
that's making me feel this way?
And the stories
we tell ourselves.
You wouldn't even talk to
your worst enemy the way
we talk to ourselves, and
of course, do that exercise.
To this day, I still do that.
If I feel like I'm getting
upset or stressed or anything,
I will ask myself, I say, wow.
I do not feel good.
I need to stop for a second.
What is going on right now?
Well, what am I
thinking right now?
And then I go over the story
I've been telling myself,
and I realize, oh,
well, that makes sense.
Now let's change the
story, because often, it's
just a story and your
interpretation of what's
going on.
Well, what if you could actually
change that interpretation
to something positive?
Because in the end,
think about this.
Think about something
that happened
to you in the past
that was negative
and then fast forward two years,
five years, and you look back,
and most of the
time, you would say,
that was the best thing
that ever happened to me.
Could have been a
breakup, and then
you later met your
real soulmate.
So you never know.
You have to trust and
you have to believe,
and you move forward.
But I'm telling you right here.
This is where it all begins.
By reprogramming
your conscious mind.
Conscious mind
means your thoughts.
You can easily become aware
of what you're thinking.
As soon as you do
that and you're
able to shift it and turn it
into a positive story or a more
positive story, you feel
better, because obviously,
your thoughts are
what's causing you
to feel what you're feeling.
Step 2 is reprogram
your subconscious mind.
So what that means is--
this is a lot
harder, by the way.
You can do it, it's just
harder than the other one
is like, what am I
thinking about right now
that's making me feel this way.
Pretty simple.
Step 2 subconscious.
Reprogram your
subconscious mind.
Those are your limiting beliefs.
What you believe is what
you will manifest, right?
And so you have to figure
out that area of your life
that isn't working, what are
your beliefs around that area?
Because those beliefs will
determine how successful you
are in that area of your life,
and it's really interesting
because sometimes
we have beliefs
and we don't even know we
have those beliefs, right?
And that's why that's step 1
is important, because once you
start becoming aware
of your thoughts,
then you start recognizing
what you're telling yourself.
What you're telling
yourself is so
powerful in determining
what action you take,
determining of what direction
you will go in your life,
and so your limiting beliefs
are what really drive you
in every way without
you even realizing it.
The good news is
that you can uncover
what your limiting beliefs
are, and once you--
in that area that's not
working and once you do,
then you just shift them to
positive empowering beliefs
instead, and then once you've
done that, everything shifts
in that area, but until
you do that, it'll
be very difficult
to truly transform
that area of your life.
You might say I want
to meet my soulmate,
and then you meet your
soulmate but then you break up
three months later
and then you're
looking for your
soul mate again,
and then you meet your
soulmate six months later
and then you break up, and
then there are limiting beliefs
around that area of your life
around relationships or money
is a big one for many people.
And so if you're finding you're
having a lot of difficulty
making ends meet or you're not
reaching your financial goals
and no matter how hard you
try, how hard you work,
no matter what you do,
it's still not happening,
or sometimes it happens,
and then you lose it,
and it happens, and you lose it.
You need to analyze and figure
out what your beliefs are
around that area of money.
That's a really huge one.
So what people are
normally looking
for when it comes
to making money
is all different kinds
of opportunities.
I'm going to get
a better job, I'm
going to start a new business,
I'm going to do this,
and those are all good things,
but if you haven't shifted
your limiting
beliefs around money,
you will always be struggling
around money no matter what.
So the good news is
all you have to do
is uncover what your
limiting beliefs are.
So I'm going to give
you some examples
around what limiting beliefs
are around money, for instance.
I'll never be a millionaire.
Rich people are jerks.
I'm too old to be rich.
I'm not smart enough to be rich.
Money doesn't grow on trees,
and another exercise--
a really great exercise
would be actually pick
that area of your life
that isn't working,
so let's say financial, and
then just write out the story.
Write out your story.
Just hand write the story of
what's going on in that area.
I do journaling
every single morning.
I start off my day
journaling, and I just
write, and write, and write,
and write, and write, and write.
So you tell your story.
So I can't believe that
I'm six figures in debt.
How did this happen?
Whatever the story
is, and I'm never
going to make that
kind of money.
How am I ever going
to get out of debt?
I'm going to end up losing
everything, and whatever.
Just write and write, and
don't edit or anything.
Just free flow and write, and
write, and write, and tell
your story and keep on
writing until you just can't
write anymore around that.
Just put it-- whatever
is in your head,
just put it on paper.
This is your truth
around that area.
And then what I want you to
do is then go back and then
read it.
And then read it again, and
then read it again, and then
read it again.
And by the time you read
it the fifth or sixth time,
you're going to start
noticing the story.
A, how negative it is, and B,
ask yourself that question,
is this really true
or is this the stories
I've been telling myself?
And then once you
pick up what that is,
you can easily shifted into
a positive empowering belief.
So for money, for instance, I
always say this to this day,
and it's an ongoing
joke with all my friends
and family because I
do this all the time.
I love to say, money
flows easily, freely,
and from everywhere.
Money flows easily, freely,
And I have it on the
poster in my office.
I will find a nickel on the
ground, and I will pick it up
and I will be, money
flows easily, freely,
and from everywhere.
I say it all the time,
and it really does.
It's really crazy.
And so you start reprogramming
your subconscious mind.
Instead of thinking money
doesn't grow on trees,
I'll never be a millionaire,
only other people,
other people, are the ones
that become rich, not me.
Well, why not you?
Why not you?
Ask yourself that question.
All kinds of stuff
is going to come up.
Why not you?
Well, because I'm
not smart enough.
OK, there's another
limited belief.
There are a lot of people
that are not smart that
are billionaires, right?
And so it's important
to really uncover
those limiting beliefs
and trying to figure out
what is it that has been
stopping me from moving forward
in that area of my life.
It's very powerful.
I'm telling you right
now, once you uncover
what your limiting beliefs
are around that area that's
not working in your life,
everything will shift.
You just need to turn it into
positive, empowering beliefs
instead, but you can't
do that until you
uncover what they are.
Step number 3 is elevating
your vibrational frequency
to a state of love,
peace, joy, and gratitude.
Once you get yourself to a
state of love, peace, joy,
and gratitude, everything
will shift in your life.
Everything.
Not whether you believe
in the law of attraction
or you don't, it
doesn't really matter.
Think about it.
If you get yourself to a
state of love, peace, joy,
and gratitude, how
would you feel?
How would you like your life?
It would be great.
Doesn't matter what you
believe, but I'm telling you,
once you get yourself to a state
of love, peace, joy, gratitude,
which is the highest vibrational
frequency, especially love
and peace, really
powerful, and you
do the work to be
able to get to that,
everything will be OK in your
life, even when something quote
unquote bad happens, right?
And so you'll start attracting
more positive people, things,
situations in your life, why?
Because that's who you're being.
You're being love, peace,
joy, and gratitude.
That is what you will
attract back into your life.
When you're being negative,
angry, resentful, all that,
you're going to
attract more of that.
Why?
Because that's what you're
focusing on and that's what
you're going to see.
Remember all those open doors?
They're not there.
When you're in love, peace,
joy, and gratitude, you're like,
I've never seen so
many open doors.
I don't even know which
one to go through.
Wow, right?
And so how do you get to a
state of love, peace, joy,
and gratitude is the number one
question people always ask me,
and there's many ways.
There are many ways that you can
do it, and one of the things--
I'm going to give you a few
ways of doing it, and probably
all these things you should do.
Let go of the negative
past, because when
you're holding onto the negative
past, the negative things that
happen to you in the past that,
not only are you bringing it
into your present,
but you're affecting
your future, because
every decision you make,
how you see things,
your perception,
you're holding onto
something from the past,
so it's very negative.
And so if you don't let
go of the negative past,
it will be difficult to
transform your life going
forward, and a lot of people
say, well, how do we do that?
Well, one great way is to
think of the past as no longer
real, because the reality
is the past doesn't exist.
And a lot of people argue
that, and it doesn't exist.
Where does it exist?
Show it to me.
Is it this?
It doesn't exist.
The only place that exists
is this thing again.
It doesn't exist, right?
And so the past--
we're keeping the past
alive by our thoughts.
The crazy part is this.
Is that the future doesn't
exist either, right?
So the future is also a thought.
Think about it.
When you're thinking about
the future, you're thinking.
It's not real.
That doesn't mean you don't
think about the future,
you don't plan for the future.
Of course, you do,
but think about it.
The future doesn't
exist either, and I
want you to know
that anytime you're
feeling stressed or angry
or worried, chances are,
you were either--
all those negative
feelings, you're either
focusing on what
happened in the past
or you're worrying about
what's going on in the future.
You're not in the
present, right?
So as soon as you become aware
of that, that immediately makes
everything better, because
as soon as you bring yourself
into this present moment,
which is my point here,
is that the past doesn't exist,
the future doesn't exist.
The only thing that exists
is this moment right now.
This conversation
we're having right
now is all that exists
in this exact moment.
That doesn't mean you
don't plan for the future,
because remember, while you're
planning and once it arrives,
it's not the future anymore,
it's the present again.
This is all there
is, and so the reason
I'm mentioning that
is as soon as you
let go of the past, which
is all negative energy,
then you can get yourself to
that state of love, peace, joy,
and gratitude, because
it's not holding you back.
Forgiveness is another thing,
but of course, forgiveness
has everything to do
with your past again.
It's based on something
that happened to you,
something someone did
to you, or sometimes
you need to forgive yourself
for what you did, right?
None of us are perfect.
We've all done things that we're
not happy about because we're
human, right?
And so to forgive yourself,
and so forgiveness is key too,
and when we forgive,
it's really important
to realize that when
you're forgiving,
you're not condoning
what somebody did to you,
all you're doing is this.
Is you're letting go
of that negativity.
You are doing it for yourself.
There is this
expression, and I can't
remember who the
author was, but not
forgiving is like
drinking rat poison
and expecting the
rat to die, right?
Think about it.
The only person dying
is us holding on to it,
and so forgiveness
is key because you're
doing it for yourself.
It's not for them.
And forgiveness can
happen without even
speaking to the person.
You can write a letter
and never send it.
In here you could forgive them.
Let it go.
It's for you, because
you're holding
onto all that negativity,
and let's face it.
That person's probably not
even thinking about you,
and here, they're holding on
to this mental real estate
that you're allowing them
to have in your mind.
They're taking on this mental--
this realist prime real estate
in our minds.
And they're just out
doing their own thing.
Just let it go.
It's the past.
Doesn't exist anymore.
People are doing the best they
can with the tools they have,
and they make
mistakes around that,
and sometimes they grow and
learn and become evolved great
people, and
sometimes they don't.
And that's their journey,
that's not yours.
You can choose that
for yourself and be
able to choose your
revolvea awakened state
and allow yourself to forgive.
Forgiveness is important,
because once you forgive,
you're alleviating
all that negativity,
and you're being expansive.
You're expanding yourself, and
so forgiveness is important.
The other thing is
meditation, and so meditation
is really important because
it quiets your mind.
It quiets your mind.
It allows you to connect
to your higher self
to source whatever
you believe in,
and once you connect
to your higher self,
you're able to get
the messages that
are being sent to you, right?
When you're in that
dark, resentful, angry,
you won't forgive, you're
focusing on the past,
all that negative
stuff, it's negative.
You're not in a
state of love, you're
not in a state of
peace, that's for sure.
You're not happy, so you're
not in a state of joy,
and so you're definitely
not in gratitude,
because you're focusing on
all the negative things.
So yeah, it's hard.
It's hard to attract
positive things
if that's what you're thinking.
So do everything you can to get
yourself to that state of love,
peace, joy, and gratitude.
Definitely let go of the
past, definitely forgive,
and do whatever allows
you to feel good.
Meditation is a great way.
Walking in nature, go
hiking, go to the park,
spend time with the
journal is really great,
but once you get yourself
to that state-- so imagine.
You've reprogrammed
your conscious mind,
so your thoughts now, you're
becoming aware of them,
and you realize.
And you're shifting
what you're thinking.
You've reprogramming
your subconscious mind.
You've let go of all
those limiting beliefs
and turn them into positive,
empowering beliefs,
and you're in a state of love,
peace, joy, and gratitude.
How can your life not
be amazing, right?
So that's all you have to do
to live your greatest life
and bounce back.
That's why I say you can
bounce back instantly.
All you have to do is change
what you're telling yourself
and you immediately feel better.
Now, down the road it will
take maybe a little bit
longer to get to all your
big dreams and goals,
but you can feel good right now.
You have a choice.
It's in your control.
[MUSIC PLAYING]